Hosted v embedded (#1591)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/hosted-vs-embedded/index.md

---
title: Okta Hosted Vs. Customer Hosted
---

## Okta Hosted Vs. Customer Hosted

> Okta offers multiple integration options when designing an authentication experience. The two most recommended concepts are using the Okta hosted widget and the customer hosted widget. Both of these Okta built experiences provide easy implementation and maintenance, industry best practice, user self service, and built in user registration. The difference between the two concepts is where the widget itself is hosted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Okta offers multiple integration options when designing an authentication experience. The two most recommended concepts are using the Okta-hosted widget and the Customer-hosted widget. Both of these Okta-built experiences provide easy implementation and maintenance, industry best practice, user self service, and built-in user registration. The difference between the two concepts is where the widget itself is hosted.
```

> Okta offers multiple integration options when designing an authentication experience. The two most recommended concepts are using the Okta-hosted widget and the Customer-hosted widget. Both of these Okta-built experiences provide easy implementation and maintenance, industry best practice, user self service, and built-in user registration. The difference between the two concepts is where the widget itself is hosted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Okta offers multiple integration options when designing an authentication experience. The two most recommended concepts are using the Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget and the Customer-hosted Sign-In Widget. Both of these Okta-built experiences provide easy implementation and maintenance, industry best practice, user self service, and built-in user registration. The difference between the two concepts is where the Sign-In Widget itself is hosted.
```

Reviewer 2: Unless this is discussing something else, our Sign-In Widget is always referred to as "Sign-In Widget".

> ## Okta Hosted Widget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Okta-hosted widget
```

> The Okta hosted widget is considered the easiest and most secure means of integration. This is because the widget itself is hosted by Okta, maintained by Okta, and kept secure by Okta. The Okta hosted widget is recommended for most integrations. OpenID Connect Redirect Flow is used to redirect users to Okta, where the user authenticates and is redirected back to a specified, whitelisted, redirect URI. This design is considered security best practice. The look and feel, as well as the enabled features, are all configured within the Okta Admin UI. HTML customization of the page is accessible in the Admin UI which provides a moderate level of customization to the experience itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Okta-hosted widget is considered the easiest and most secure means of integration. This is because the widget itself is hosted by Okta, maintained by Okta, and kept secure by Okta. The Okta-hosted widget is recommended for most integrations. The OpenID Connect redirect flow is used to redirect users to Okta, where the user authenticates and is redirected back to a specified, allow listed, redirect URI. This design is considered security best practice. The look and feel, as well as the enabled features, are all configured within the Okta Admin Console. HTML customization of the page is accessible in the Admin Console, which provides a moderate level of customization to the experience itself.
```

FYI: We are moving to change items such as whitelisted to more inclusive language. You can see the suggested changes (work in progress) here:

https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/eng/pages/1104061388/Progressive+Terminology+-+Best+Practices+Engineering+Discussion

> ## Customer Hosted Widget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customer-hosted widget
```

> The Okta-hosted widget is considered the easiest and most secure means of integration. This is because the widget itself is hosted by Okta, maintained by Okta, and kept secure by Okta. The Okta-hosted widget is recommended for most integrations. The OpenID Connect redirect flow is used to redirect users to Okta, where the user authenticates and is redirected back to a specified, allow listed, redirect URI. This design is considered security best practice. The look and feel, as well as the enabled features, are all configured within the Okta Admin Console. HTML customization of the page is accessible in the Admin Console, which provides a moderate level of customization to the experience itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget is considered the easiest and most secure means of integration. This is because the Sign-In Widget itself is hosted by Okta, maintained by Okta, and kept secure by Okta. The Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget is recommended for most integrations. The OpenID Connect redirect flow is used to redirect users to Okta, where the user authenticates and is redirected back to a specified, allow listed, redirect URI. This design is considered security best practice. The look and feel, as well as the enabled features, are all configured within the Okta Admin Console. HTML customization of the page is accessible in the Admin Console, which provides a moderate level of customization to the experience itself.
```

Reviewer 2: @nickgamb I meant throughout, not just in that one paragraph.

> The customer hosted widget is considered the best balance of flexibility and effort to integrate. The customer hosted widget is recommended if an integration requires a deeper level of customization or a Okta hosted experience is not possible. The customer hosted widget works by providing an open source [JavaScript widget](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget) to embed into the page. The widget is built and updated by Okta, uses industry best practice security design, and is added to a page with a few lines of HTML/JavaScript. The widget itself can be loaded directly from the CDN, NPM, or built from source. The look and feel is customized directly via HTML/CSS/SASS and JavaScript. Features are configured within the Okta Admin UI and enabled in the widget via JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Customer-hosted widget is considered the best balance of flexibility and effort to integrate. The Customer-hosted widget is recommended if an integration requires a deeper level of customization or a Okta-hosted experience isn't possible. The Customer-hosted widget works by providing an open source [JavaScript widget](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget) to embed into the page. The widget is built and updated by Okta, uses industry best practice security design, and is added to a page with a few lines of HTML/JavaScript. The widget itself can be loaded directly from the CDN, NPM, or built from source. The look and feel is customized directly through HTML/CSS/SASS and JavaScript. Features are configured within the Okta Admin Console and enabled in the widget through JavaScript.
```
Just an FYI link to the more extensive Style Guide than what is here in Git (and where some of these edits are coming from):
https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/722929640/InfoDev+Style+Guide

> ## Most Should Use Okta Hosted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Most should use Okta-hosted
```

> The Customer-hosted widget is considered the best balance of flexibility and effort to integrate. The Customer-hosted widget is recommended if an integration requires a deeper level of customization or a Okta-hosted experience isn't possible. The Customer-hosted widget works by providing an open source [Okta Sign-In Widget](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget) to embed into the page. The widget is built and updated by Okta, uses industry best practice security design, and is added to a page with a few lines of HTML/JavaScript. The widget itself can be loaded directly from the CDN, NPM, or built from source. The look and feel is customized directly through HTML/CSS/SASS and JavaScript. Features are configured within the Okta Admin Console and enabled in the widget through JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Customer-hosted Sign-In Widget is considered the best balance of flexibility and effort to integrate. The Customer-hosted Sign-In Widget is recommended if an integration requires a deeper level of customization or a Okta-hosted experience isn't possible. The Customer-hosted Sign-In Widget works by providing an open source [Okta Sign-In Widget](https://github.com/okta/okta-signin-widget) to embed into the page. The Sign-In Widget is built and updated by Okta, uses industry best practice security design, and is added to a page with a few lines of HTML/JavaScript. It can be loaded directly from the CDN, NPM, or built from source. The look and feel is customized directly through HTML/CSS/SASS and JavaScript. Features are configured within the Okta Admin Console and enabled through JavaScript.
```

* Easy to maintain with no maintenance and no updates.
* Hosted and secured by Okta.

> * No [XSS](https://developer.okta.com/books/api-security/sanitizing/common-attacks/#xss-cross-site-scripting), cross site scripting, attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No [XSS](https://developer.okta.com/books/api-security/sanitizing/common-attacks/#xss-cross-site-scripting) (cross-site scripting) attacks.
```

* Easy to integrate.

> * Extremely customizable via HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extremely customizable through HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
```

* Complex logic changes that require source code access are limited.
* The user is redirected out of the application, to Okta, and then back.

> ## What About Customer Hosted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What about Customer-hosted
```

> * Moderate maintenance may be required. If using CDN, maintenance is more limited as it is being kept up to date by Okta. NPM will package a specific version of the widget which means it may need to be updated in the project periodically. Customized or local versions of the widget source code would require regular updating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Moderate maintenance may be required. If using CDN, maintenance is more limited as it is being kept up-to-date by Okta. NPM packages a specific version of the widget, which means that it may need to be updated in the project periodically. Customized or local versions of the widget source code would require regular updating.
```

> * Still considered very secure if implemented using recommended best practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Still considered very secure if implemented using recommended best practices.
```

> * Moderate maintenance may be required. If using CDN, maintenance is more limited as it is being kept up-to-date by Okta. NPM packages a specific version of the widget, which means that it may need to be updated in the project periodically. Customized or local versions of the widget source code would require regular updating.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Moderate maintenance may be required. If using CDN, maintenance is more limited as it is being kept up-to-date by Okta. NPM packages a specific version of the widget, which means that it may need to be updated in the project periodically. Customized or local versions of the Sign-In Widget source code would require regular updating.
```

* A great level of source code customization control while being drastically easier, and more secure, than building from scratch.

> * Slightly increased risk in security due to Okta not being able to guarantee that the widget has been implemented correctly. Specifically, the application code may have the ability to access the credentials that the user has entered into the widget, which need to be kept secure. This is not a risk if implemented correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Slightly increased risk in security due to Okta not being able to guarantee that the widget has been implemented correctly. Specifically, the application code may have the ability to access the credentials that the user has entered into the widget, which need to be kept secure. This isn't a risk if implemented correctly.
```

> * Potentially susceptible to XSS, cross site scripting, attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Potentially susceptible to XSS (cross-site scripting) attacks.
```

> * Slightly increased risk in security due to Okta not being able to guarantee that the widget has been implemented correctly. Specifically, the application code may have the ability to access the credentials that the user has entered into the widget, which need to be kept secure. This isn't a risk if implemented correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Slightly increased risk in security due to Okta not being able to guarantee that the Sign-In Widget has been implemented correctly. Specifically, the application code may have the ability to access the credentials that the user has entered into the Sign-In Widget, which need to be kept secure. This isn't a risk if implemented correctly.
```

> * Higher level of effort to integrate and maintain compared to the Okta hosted widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Higher level of effort to integrate and maintain compared to the Okta-hosted widget.
```

> * Higher level of effort to integrate and maintain compared to the Okta-hosted widget.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Higher level of effort to integrate and maintain compared to the Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget.
```

* Keeps the user in the application, reducing redirects to and from Okta.

## Learn More

> Continue reading about the Okta hosted widget in the [Sign Users In](/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continue reading about the Okta-hosted widget in the [Sign Users In](/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/) guide.
```

> Continue reading about the Okta-hosted widget in the [Sign Users In](/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/) guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Continue reading about the Okta-hosted Sign-In Widget in the [Sign Users In](/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/) guide.
```

> Continue reading about the customer hosted experience in the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/docs/concepts/okta-embedded-flows/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continue reading about the Customer-hosted experience in the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/docs/concepts/okta-embedded-flows/) guide.
```
